backend-guide: add turso page (#5790)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/backend/turso.mdx

## Initializing Turso in Astro

### Prerequisites

- The [Turso CLI](https://docs.turso.tech/reference/turso-cli) installed and signed in
- A [Turso](https://turso.tech) Database with schema
- Your Database URL
- An Access Token

### Configure environment variables

Obtain your database URL using the following command:

```bash
turso db show <database-name> --url
```

Create an auth token for the database:

```bash
turso db tokens create <database-name>
```

Add the output from both commands above into your `.env` file at the root of your project. If this file does not exist, create one.

```ini title=".env"
TURSO_DATABASE_URL=libsql://...
TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN=
```

:::caution
Do not use the `PUBLIC_` prefix when creating these private [environment variables](/en/guides/environment-variables/). This will expose these values on the client.
:::

### Install LibSQL Client

Install the `@libsql/client` to connect Turso to Astro:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```shell
    npm install @libsql/client
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```shell

>     pnpm install @libsql/client

Reviewer: Should be `pnpm add`

>     pnpm install @libsql/client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pnpm add @libsql/client
```

### Initialize a new client

Create a file `turso.ts` in the `src` folder and invoke `createClient`, passing it `TURSO_DATABASE_URL` and `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN`:

```ts title="src/turso.ts"
import { createClient } from "@libsql/client/web";

export const turso = createClient({
  url: import.meta.env.TURSO_DATABASE_URL,
  authToken: import.meta.env.TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN,
});
```

## Querying your database

To access information from your database, import `turso` and [execute a SQL query](https://docs.turso.tech/libsql/client-access/javascript-typescript-sdk#execute-a-single-statement) inside any `.astro` component.

The following example fetches all `posts` from your table, then displays a list of titles in a `<BlogIndex />` component:

```astro title="src/components/BlogIndex.astro"
---
import {turso} from '../turso'

const {rows} = await turso.execute('SELECT * FROM posts')
---

<ul>
  {rows.map((post) => (
    <li>{post.title}</li>
  ))}
</ul>
```

### SQL Placeholders

The `execute()` method can take [an object to pass variables to the SQL statement](https://docs.turso.tech/libsql/client-access/javascript-typescript-sdk#positional-placeholders), such as `slug`, or pagination.

> The following example fetches a single entry from the `posts` table `WHERE` the `slug` is the retrieved value from `Astro.params`, then displays **....**:

Reviewer 2: I think all we need is a fill-in-the-blank here and I'm happy to merge!  🥳

Author: Awesome. Will resume this tomorrow first thing. Thank you for all your support getting this to the finish line.

Author: If you wanted to add something now you could update this to be “displays the title of the post” or “displays the title of the post that was retrieved using the slug”

Its almost midnight and on mobile so not great for suggestions 🙈

> The following example fetches a single entry from the `posts` table `WHERE` the `slug` is the retrieved value from `Astro.params`, then displays **....**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example fetches a single entry from the `posts` table `WHERE` the `slug` is the retrieved value from `Astro.params`, then displays the title of the post.
```

---
title: Turso & Astro
description: Build locally with a SQLite file and deploy globally using Turso.
type: backend
service: Turso
stub: false
i18nReady: true
---
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

[Turso](https://turso.tech) is a distributed database built on libSQL, a fork of SQLite. It is optimized for low query latency, making it suitable for global applications.

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: "```suggestion
## Initializing Turso in Astro

### Prerequisites
```
I realized I never did come back to put a proper level 2 heading here. Happy with "Initializing" since it matches the other guides. Would also be OK with "Setting up" or "Configuring" if you prefer!

- The [Turso CLI](https://docs.turso.tech/reference/turso-cli) installed and signed in
- A [Turso](https://turso.tech) Database with schema
- Your Database URL
- An Access Token

> If you don't have an existing database and schema with Turso, you can create one and connect to the shell using the Turso CLI:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you don't have an existing database and schema with Turso, create one and connect to the shell using the Turso CLI:
```

```bash
turso db create my-astro-db
turso db shell my-astro-db
```

> Then add the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then add the following:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE posts (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    title TEXT,
    slug TEXT UNIQUE,
    content TEXT
);

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think I would still suggest removing this, since you've said in the prerequisites that they SHOULD have this. So, this step to create one really isn't part of the point of connecting to Turso here.

Author: I'm happy to remove it but a pet peeve of my browsing "guides" in particular is that they always assume there's something you need to do beforehand to follow a guide. Totally happy to remove (and I will).

Reviewer 2: That is literally what "Prerequisites" is for!  😄

> Populate the `posts` table with some initial content by **[DOING THIS THING, IDEALLY LINKING TO TURSO DOCS]**.  This is required so you can write queries and have data to fetch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Sounds like the intention was to remove this?

Author: Ha! Good spot. Totally missed this earlier rushing to get a reply back to you.

### Configure environment variables

You can obtain your database URL using the following command:

```bash
turso db show my-astro-db --url
```

Then we'll need to create an auth token for the database:

```bash
turso db tokens create my-astro-db
```

Now create the file `.env` and add the output from both commands above:

```ini title=".env"
TURSO_DATABASE_URL=libsql://...
TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN=
```

:::caution
Make sure you **do not** expose the `TURSO_DATABASE_URL` and `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN` on the client with the `PUBLIC_` prefix when creating [environment variables](/en/guides/environment-variables/).
:::

> ## Install LibSQL Client

Author: That's fair. I did have that originally but then changed it to `h2`.

To connect Astro to Turso we will need to install the `@libsql/client`:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```shell
    npm install @libsql/client
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```shell
    pnpm install @libsql/client
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```shell
    yarn add @libsql/client
    ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

## Initialize a new client

> Now create the file `turso.ts` in the `src` folder and invoke `createClient`, passing it `TURSO_DATABASE_URL` and `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a file `turso.ts` in the `src` folder and invoke `createClient`, passing it `TURSO_DATABASE_URL` and `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN`:
```

```ts
import { createClient } from "@libsql/client/web";

export const turso = createClient({
  url: import.meta.env.TURSO_DATABASE_URL,
  authToken: import.meta.env.TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN,
});
```

## Create a query

> Now inside `src/pages/index.astro`, import `turso` and execute a SQL query to fetch all `posts` from the table:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inside `src/pages/index.astro`, import `turso` and execute a SQL query to fetch all `posts` from the table:
```

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import {turso} from '../turso'

const posts = await turso.execute('SELECT * FROM posts')
---

<ul>
  {posts.map((post) => (
    <li>{post.title}</li>
  ))}
</ul>
```

## Create a query with arguments

> There are cases where you'll need to pass values to your SQL query for things like a `slug`, `id` or even for pagination. Thankfully, the `execute` method also accepts an object that safely passes your variables to the SQL statement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are cases where you'll need to pass values to your SQL query for things like a `slug`, `id`, or pagination. Thankfully, the `execute` method also accepts an object that safely passes your variables to the SQL statement.
```

> Create the file `src/pages/posts/[slug].astro` with the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a file `src/pages/posts/[slug].astro`, with the following:
```

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro"
---
import {turso} from '../../turso'

const {slug} = Astro.params

const post = await turso.execute({
  sql: 'SELECT * FROM posts WHERE slug = ?',

>   args: [slug!]

Reviewer 3: just checking here; is the `!` in `slug!` required? If so, what does it do and what is the difference with `args: [slug]`

> The following example fetches a single entry from the `posts` table `WHERE` the `slug` is the retrieved value from `Astro.params`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example fetches a single entry from the `posts` table `WHERE` the `slug` is the retrieved value from `Astro.params`, then displays **....**:
```
This is great! I would say just make sure you also address what's being rendered in the template, then this works really well!

})
---

<pre>{JSON.stringify(post, null, 2)}</pre>
```

> That's it! Turso is now set up and configured to read content from the database with Astro.

Reviewer 2: This example needs to be restructured.

Use the previous structure as an example: First, say what you can DO by passing an argument in generalities. Then, use a format like "The following example shows..." retrieving? querying for? and explain what that query is fetching and how it is used below.

Separate what this code is supposed to do from **how it works**. When we explain code samples, we tell them first, in words, what the code actually does. Then, when they inspect the code, they can simply focus on **how they use your tool to do that**. In this case, there's no guidance to the reader about what you're trying to do, what info is being fetched or intended to be displayed. So they have to ALSO figure out that from just the code sample, in addition to what you're actually trying to show them, which is **how to use Turso to do that**.

And, no need for that last line at all.

Author: @sarah11918 I pushed a few changes which I'll try to tune even further later today or tomorrow.

> That's it! You now have Turso setup and configured to read content from your database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That's it! Turso is now set up and configured to read content from the database with Astro.
```
